# up206a-gerrlyn
# Profile: 2nd year MURP student, concentrating in Community Economic Development and Housing. I am originally from Stockton, CA and have a background in public service, community organizing, and policy advocacy. I hope to continue forging a career path towards strategies to make affordable housing more affordable for low-income communities, economic justice, and decommodification of land.
# Course Description: In recent years, our relationship with maps and map-making has changed dramatically. No longer are we limited to a mode of map-making that is dominated by industry giants like Google and ESRI. Instead, a suite of data-science tools have matured to a point where they can produce similar, if not, more powerful and creative ways that advance spatial exploration. Our understanding of social phenomena through spatial constructs in urban data allows us to address questions on social justice, the environment, transportation, community development and design, amongst many other themes, and how these factors may affect different population groups indifferent ways. This course prepares you for challenges in urban data beyond off-the-shelf cartographic approaches. It looks at the various components of dataʼs journey—acquisition, exploration, modeling, and communication through visualization— and how it enables and advances your research from a data science perspective. The goal for this course is to expose you to the foundations of spatial data science. Where once there was a dearth of available digital information, we now live in a world of too much data. How can these data be transformed to human expressions and narratives that are utilized in planning? We begin with an introduction to various data science tools, and review the basics of programming with Python. Once a foundation of Python programming and data wrangling is achieved,spatial analysis through Python Libraries, and subsequently,through advanced geoprocessing will be introduced. All lessons will be based on “real” data with analytical methods addressing relevant and contemporary urban problems. At the conclusion of this course, students will be able to critically describe, analyze, and visualize spatial data for planning practices and research. While there are no prerequisites for taking this course, people who are approaching programming for the first time will admittedly find the course to be intense and challenging.
# Project ideas: Researching economic sectors that have been impacted by COVID in LA; Analyzing any changes in AMI across the city by zip codes between pre-COVID and today. It then might be interesting to look overlay that with the level of unemployment within those zip codes as well (if we have data at that scale); mapping plots of land across the City of LA that are elibigle to become land trusts.
# Objectives for the class: I would like to gain a base level knowledge for Python and R, which would hopefully strengthen my research skills. I would also like to learn more about how to use open-source mapping programs to expand my knowledge of such programs beyond ESRI. I am completely new to programming and coding, so the language and vocabulary for it is foreign and does not feel intuitive to me. 
